Redux calls itself a predictable state container for JavaScript apps.
Sounds familiar. Redux is a functional library for state management.
Here's an excerpt straight from their Docs.
It helps you write applications that behave consistently,
run in different environments and are easy to test.
What I love is that we have gone full circle.
The benefits of functional programming we learned about in lesson 1 are
being realized by these libraries that implement functional practices.
In turn, those benefits are passed down to the developers that use these libraries.
Where RxJS is usually used with Angular,
Redux is usually seen with React.
But same as RxJS,
Redux doesn't have to be used with React.
Redux illustrates some great functional concepts without standing clarity.
Let's take a look at the general idea.
In this example, imagine that I have a web app.
My web app has state.
My web app also recognizes different browser events that come from the user.
This might be a click event or Onsubmit.
When an event happens,
I want to update state.
It might be tempting to have that event directly update state,
but that would be a bad idea because what if instead of one event we had 50,
then all of the 50 events would be making a mad grab to change
state and we would never be able to accurately tell what was in state at any given time.
The best analogy I've ever heard for Redux is a bank.
In a bank, you have vault and that vault can only be touched by tellers.
In a bank, I can walk in.
In this case, I am like an event and I probably only want to
do one of the few actions like withdraw or deposit money.
In Redux, the vault or store is an immutable object;
it cannot be changed, only replaced.
Tellers are pure functions that take in any one of
the actions that might happen and return a brand new state.
Actions themselves are simple objects.
They simply state exactly the change that
an event might cause in the simplest possible terms.
There's a lot going on there and I hope that it wasn't too confusing,
but it's really cool because you can see how Redux follows
functional patterns to achieve its goal of organized state management.
State management isn't even something that Lambda calculus has.
But we can use the concepts we took from
Lambda calculus and extend them for our needs in web development.